**Physika**

A physics engine capable of simulating a variety of phenomena including rigid body dynamics, deformation of soft body, fluid, collision detection and response, etc.

@authors:
Fei Zhu, 
Wei Chen,
Sheng Yang, 
Tianxiang Zhang,
Liyou Xu

@Last update of this file:
Wei Chen, 08/31/2017

=============================================================

**Build Requirements:**

*Build Tool*: Scons

*Platforms*: Windows, Linux, MacOS

*Language*: C++ 11/14 & Cuda

*Compiler*: GNU G++, MSVC(2015 or newer)

=============================================================

**Complilation &  Installation:**

*1*: install Python in the way you like.

*2*: ```pip install scons``` to install scons tool.

*3*: open the command line window in ```Physika``` root folder, and type ```scons``` to compile all source codes(.cpp & .cu) to lib files in Public_Library. If you are using MSVC, ```.sln``` file would be generated simultaneously.

*4*: open the command line window in ```Physika/Physika_Test``` folder, and type ```scons``` to generate test projects. If you are using MSVC, ```.sln``` file would be generated simultaneously.

=============================================================

**Code Structure:**

*Documentation*: Documentations related to this project, including coding style and development plans. It also contain scons compiler tool for cuda codes.

*Public_Library*: Public API of Physika.

- *include*: Header files generated by Physika after compilation. Any project built on Physika simply needs to include files in this directory.
	
- *lib*: Binary lib files generated by Physika after compilation. It contains two directories that separate libs and dlls for debug/release mode.
	
*Physika_Src*: Source code of Physika, including 3rd party libraries that Physika uses. After compilation, header files and binary libraries would be copied to the 2 directories in *Public_Library* directory.

*Physika_Test*: Unit or Non-unit test projects for Physika, we employ google_test for unit test.

*Projects*: Projects built on Physika. Generally they simply need to include necessary header files and link corresponding binaries of Physika.


